---
title: Anthill Excavation Contract
description: >
   The online TCG Hearthstone has a statistic called drawn winrate. Drawn winrate, to keep things simple, is a measure of what the expected winrate of a deck is in games where you have drawn this card. Another way of viewing this can be, "How much more likely would I be to win if I drew this card right now?" All of this brings me to Rashida Jaheem, so let's talk about her.

date: 2025-03-22T16:44:48Z
tags:
 - netrunner
 - elevation
 - card reviews
---

<script type="module" src="/js/card-frame.js"></script>

<card-frame side="corp" stars="4" src="https://cdn.ewie.online/nsg-anthill-excavation-contract.jpeg">

Weyland Asset: Industrial

Rez cost: 3 – Trash cost: 1 – Influence cost: 2

When you rez this asset, load 8 **credits** onto it. When it is empty, trash it.

When your turn begins, take 4 **credits** from this asset and draw 1 card.

_“If you lived here, you’d be at work by now!”_

_— Weyland recruiter_

4 stars

</card-frame>

The online TCG Hearthstone has a statistic called drawn winrate. Drawn winrate,
to keep things simple, is a measure of what the expected winrate of a deck is in
games where you have drawn this card. Another way of viewing this can be, "How
much more likely would I be to win if I drew this card right now?"[^1] All of
this brings me to [Rashida Jaheem](https://netrunnerdb.com/en/card/21080), so
let's talk about her.

One of the great failings of Rashida Jaheem is, I would venture to say, she has
a high drawn winrate. An early Rashida can really give you the gas you could
ever need, and then some, and if you never draw her, you can find yourself
struggling to get the cards and money you need to get your game plan going. Now
imagine the drawn winrate for two Rashidas, or three Rashidas. I think you can
see my point. Rashida Jaheem is just one card with a lot of concentrated swing
potential, and whether or not you can draw that one card early enough can often
be the difference between winning or losing. I think it can be easy to say that
Null Signal does not want to repeat the mistakes of Fantasy Flight and print a
card that puts that much winning into a single package.

Anthill Excavation Contract is, in my opinion, an attempt to print a worse
Rashida. When played like Rashida, it only gives you 1 credit and 1 draw, which
isn't great, but the turn afterwards, it will give you 4 more credits and a
second draw, which is a bit better. Is it as immediately good as Rashida? No.
But I think that's the point. Rashida was too good, and this is worse. This
should result in slower games, with less swing value from drawing an early
Anthill Excavation Contract, while still giving the corp some gas.

Will Anthill see play outside of Weyland? I doubt it. I think there'll be some
decks that reach for it, but it's very likely that it'll stay a Weyland-only
card, albeit a very commonly played one.

[^1]: I was able to find a breakdown of these stats on
    [hsguru](https://www.hsguru.com/stats/explanation), so you can find more
    information there. Needless to say, it's a pretty interesting set of
    numbers. For those who are more magic-inclined, I have also located a pretty
    neat article by magic the gathering data science about
    [similar sorts of statistic in mtga](https://mtgds.wordpress.com/2022/02/28/knowledge-and-power-estimating-adjusted-win-rate-in-magic-the-gathering-limited/).
